So in our application, we get a bunch of error handling in place already,
let's start in the app.js.
There I do already handle the case or I do have a catch block at least where I try to fetch my user
at the beginning of the request and fetch the user from a session and then store that user
object,
still we can improve that and we will improve that in a second.
In my controllers, I also have some error handling,
let's say in the auth.js file. There
I do check in login whether this email address does exist and if not, I do already return the same page
with an error code
actually where I do pass that information that the input was invalid. We do the same with the validation
logic we added earlier
by the way, here in the routes where we use the express validator package to add built-in validation
functions, so built into that package. There behind the scenes, this package also throws and handles errors
and allows us to simply collect all these errors which are now not these technical error objects but
which are simply, which is data managed by that package,
we collect these errors here and then we handle them manually.
That would be the right side of this slide here because there, we handle errors manually or we added
an if check where we check if data we got is enough to continue or not.
We get no technical error being thrown here,
these technical errors by the way can always be seen if you have an error message down there in the
terminal,
we have no such error but we still have invalid code and therefore we check this manually and proceed
on our own. In our custom validators
however, if we have a look at that, there I do throw a technical error
for example when passwords do not match.
Now this error would normally bubble up and would be handled by express but this express validator
package happens to also handle it.
And now it's this error handling which I want to dive into first before we then start implementing proper
solutions for the different kinds of errors we could have.